---
ID: 136
post_title: The Bee
author: ng23055
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://morgazine.shepherdhistory.org/the-bee/
published: true
post_date: 2017-07-16 04:29:45
---
One thing that has always bothered me about “X-Files: Fight the Future” concerns the bee which stows away underneath Scully’s collar. In the movie, they discover a building where the bees are stored. The bees are released while they’re inside, they need to run to escape, and then after being chased by black helicopters there is a cut to the next scene where Scully is attending a hearing. The bee underneath her collar is first revealed towards the end of this scene. The bee doesn’t sting her until a few hours later when she and Mulder are talking in the hallways of his apartment building.

My problem is that this is a really patient bee, if it waited what seems like several hours to finally sting Scully. Not to mention that it happens to sting her just as they are about to kiss for the very first time. I was never really that eager to see them get together, but I know that the show had always played around with the question of will they or won’t they. The movie already offered several great moments that fans had been waiting for throughout the series--and this would have been one of them, if it wasn’t for that damn bee.

Here is another question about the bee: why didn’t it just fly away after getting caught up under Dana Scully’s collar? It could have left any time while they were inside the corn field, in the car, while she was on her flight, during the car ride home. One could argue there was a possibility of her changing before the trial, but because she was late getting back it seems safe to say that she just kept on what she was wearing at the time. I guess that’s really the piece that made this work, is that Mulder had dragged reluctantly out to Texas to investigate his lead on the dead bodies, and she would have flown straight back to Washington, D.C. for the hearing that was scheduled the next morning. This is not a standard operating procedure for them--usually they would just rent a hotel room and stick around, or at least if this was an episode.

Kind of going on a limb here, but thinking about it more I wondered if there was something that attracted the bee to her and kept it from leaving? There was something a little pre-meditated about the bee stinging her. Mulder’s emergency call was traced, a counterfeit ambulance was standing by, the military jet and cryo-chamber were prepped and ready to go. Is it possible that there was something special about Scully that lured the bee close to her, like a moth to a flame, and once it was close to her it just didn’t want to leave? Perhaps she had been sent a perfume sample in the mail, and she had started to wear it without knowing that it contained a chemical which would attract that very same type of bee. Or, it might have been the alien chip that had once been implanted into her.

But, why would it have stung her? Perhaps the chemical that was used to lure in the bee was some form of pheromone which bees can detect, for example it might have sensed the scent of its queen bee. But, when she came close to kissing Mulder, her own levels of pheromones began to increase, and as the bee no longer could detect its queen it came to its senses and stung her.